# REST API Error Handling

There are several different errors you have to look out for when dealing with APIs. With REST APIs that leveral HTTP as its transport, the API will respond with an HTTP error code when a problem occurs. There are several different error codes but most APIs only implement about 10 and the rest are largely unused. 

The error codes are grouped into different categories that helps identify what the cause of the issue. The top level code will be the most generic while sub codes will be more specific. For example:

1XX - Information Codes
	100 - Continue
	101 - Switching protocols
	102 - Processing
	103 - Early hints
2XX - Success Codes
	200 - OK
3XX - Redirects
	301 - Moved Permanently
	304 - Not modified
4XX - Client error
	400 - Bad Request
	401 - Unauthorized
	403 - Forbidden
	404 - Not Found
	429 - Too Many Requests
5XX - Server error
	500 - Internal Server Error
	501 - Not implemented
	502 - Bad Gateway
	503 - Service unavailable
	504 - Gateway Timeout
	
Each of these codes tell you something about your request and what may or may not have happened to it. Whether it was successful or not. Most of them, however, either indicate that your request is correctly formatted or not. If it is not, then you have to correct your code. Pure and simple. Such as forbidden, bad request, unauthorized, etc. Fix what the issue is and move on. Others, however, such as too many requests, require you to write your code in such a way that it can work around the error code or with the error code. For example, configuring retries after certain intervals with exponential backoff timers. 

Also, it's important to remember that somethings things just fail for some unknown reason such as a network issue. Retries can help workaround this random issues as well without having to know much more about the network the application is riding on. 

In ansible, you can use the retry feature available to most ansible tasks with the until keyword. In python you can use a while loop with tries, timeouts, and attempts as variable that increment and retry until the number of attempts is reached. 