# ChatOps with Webex API

- test
    - test2
- test
-- test
Chatbots allow engineers to take a conversational approach to operations. It allows for tighter collaboration by having alerts come into the same chat system that the user leverage every day already. 

Chatbots can be:
1. Notifiers
2. Controllers
3. Personal Assistants

Webex requires creating a token for the chatbot to use in order to authenticate to the system. The authorization type that it uses is f"Bearer {bearer_token}" with a content type of json.

`
    bearer_token = 'ZTZhZmJi...d65305c2ce82'
    base_url = 'https://webexapis.com/v1/'
    headers = {
        "Authorization": f"Bearer {bearer_token}",
        "Content-Type": "application/json"
    }
    result = requests.get(f'{base_url}/<function>', headers=headers)
`

A chatops will typically serve as a middleware betweeen another application and the chat software. For example, you can have events from an NMS like Zabbix get sent to the chatops program which will forward them to the chat system for collaboration and resolution. Or you can have a system like Ansible just send a status message to a chat room. 

The webex uri to post a message to a chat room is
''"https://api.ciscospark.com/v1/messages/" with the room id and and the message in the data/body (json) of the request and the auth token as a bearer token in the headers. 

A chatbot can be an application that sends a message to a chat room of your choice like mentioned above, but more accuratley it is also a program that is monitoring a chat room in some way. The best way to do that with Webex is to use a webhook. When a message pops into the chat room, the webhook will notify that chat bot and the chat bot will collect the message and do something with it. In order to trigger the webhook, you will need to actually speak to the chatbot in the chat room using the @chatbot function. Pretty slick.

Simple setup. 

When running the create_webook piece, remember to use a filter of some sort. Otherwise the chatbot can create a loop since by default it listens for its mentioned name AND for messages it sends. 

## Webex Development Kit

The webex development kit is available for the following environments:
- iOS
- Android
- Web Apps
- Node.js
- Jave