# UCS APIs

UCS manager XML API is programmatic interface that allows management of Cisco UCS compute, network, and storage resources. XML only, no JSON. Which is lame. 

Configuration and state information for Cisco UCS is stored in a hierarchal tree structure known as the management information tree. 

The operation of the API is transactional and whem mulitple managed objects are being configured, the API operation stops if any of them cannot be configured and all the changes are rolled back to the state before. That is very powerful to ensure you are not left in a partially configured state. 

The API also operates in "forgiving" mode. This means that attributes are replaced with applicable default values, and incorrect attributes are ignored. 

## Cisco UCS Management Information Model

All information in UCS are represented in a hierarchical management information model. Called MIT. 

Each node in the tree is a managed object or group of objects that contain its administrative state and its operational state. 

Managed objects are abstractions of Cisco UCS resources such as blades, fabric interconnects, chassis, blades, rack mounted servers, and so on. 

Distinguished name(dn) describes the object and its place in the tree. for example:
"Dn": "sys/chassis-6/blade-5"

The information is centrally stored and managed by the data management engine, which is a user level process running on the fabric interconnects.

When you make an administrative change to a Cisco UCS component, the DME first applies the change to the information model and then applies the change to the actual managed endpoint. This is known as *model-driven framewoek*

## API Method Categories

- authentication
- query
- configuration
- event subscription

Authentication methods are used for authenticating the API session. Includes these three methods for maintaining an auth session:
- aaaLogin
- aaaRefresh
- aaaLogout

Query Methods are used to obtain information on the current state of a managed object. It has an inHeirachical argument that can return large responses.

- configResolveDn—Retrieves objects by DN.
- configResolveDns—Retrieves objects by a set of DNs.
- configResolveClass—Retrieves objects of a given class.
- configResolveClasses—Retrieves objects of multiple classes.
- configFindDnsByClassId—Retrieves the DNs of a specified class.
- configResolveChildren—Retrieves the child objects of an object.
- configResolveParent—Retrieves the parent object of an object.
- configScope—Performs class queries on a DN in the management information tree.

Configuration methods are used to make configuration changes to managed objects. Can be applied to the whole tree, a subtree, or an individual object.

- configConfMo—Affects a single managed object (for example, a DN).
- configConfMos—Affects multiple subtrees (for example, several DNs).
- configConfMoGroup—Makes the same configuration changes to multiple subtree structures (DNs) or managed objects.

Event subscription methods allow applications to get state-change information via regular polling or event subscription. 

`<eventSubscribe 
    cookie="<real_cookie>">
</eventSubscribe>`






